Title: Codeigniter 3 for Complex Application
Date: 2015-05-24 17:00
Author: egig
Category: Uncategorized
Slug: codeigniter-3-for-complex-application
Status: published

This is why I think that Codeigniter is not suitable for a complex
application.

If you plan your app can be customized in the future without pain, if
data involved is not predictable, if it is intended to be developed
across various team member for a long term period, thats require a
little bit complexity. I mean, complex feature means complex
requirements, and as far as i know, codeigniter is designed to be
just... codeigniter.

<!--more-->

Magic is never good for development, I heard that once. Codeigniter has
a lot of magic which is make it a framework that i love at the time.
Codeigniter have magic routing, magic model and library instantiation,
unfortunately the magician needs sacrifice... limitation.<!--more-->

### Magic Routing

let’s say you access codeigniter app via route `setting`, the route will
magically leads you to class controller named 'setting' and method named
'index'.

And it'll keep that way, we can’t do anything about it until we utilize
routing config or '\_remap' function. But still, it's complicated.

### Magic class instantiation

You know how to load model and library in codeigniter. When you call
`$this->load->library('email')`, your current controller class will
magically have public property named 'email'. What if the controller
class already have the property named 'email' ? Will it be overridden or
the library never be loaded ? or even threw an error or exception ? Its
something that we will always worry about during the development.

### Simple Error

Codeigniter use function named `show_error()` to show error either in
production or development environment. And it, at least for me, is too
simple and lack of information, give me a headache each time I have to
trace the mistake. On a codeigniter normal app it’s fine, but what if
the app is getting bigger ??

### Codeigniter not join the party (yet)

PHP dependency management, composer, till now codeigniter still not
utilizes it. I dont know why. By the way it’s now widely used by many
php community and framework. Not just composer, php autoloading, support
for newer version of php, codeigniter still not join the party.

### Limited environment

For now, in `index.php` file codeigniter defines 3 built in environment:
development, production and testing. Yes, we can add one if we want, but
it means we add one more concern when updating the framework/application
on the future which is one additional job.

### Codeigniter and HMVC

Often times an app requires modularity, Codeigniter is designed to be
one application. One application directory contains one config, one
controller, one model and one view directory. We know there is a
[codeigniter extension to support HMVC
architecture](https://www.google.co.id/#q=codeigniter+hmvc), but still,
its done by unclean way, hacks.

What hack ?

Codeigniter routing system relies on directory named 'controllers', so
if we access a url, let say, '/post/view', codeigniter will looks for
controller class file named 'post' then execute method 'view', if one of
them not found, then 404 thrown. The controller class file is checked
whether it exists in controllers directory or not.

[The HMVC
extension](https://bitbucket.org/wiredesignz/codeigniter-modular-extensions-hmvc)
does the same way, however, it’s not looking into the inside of the
controllers directory, but into the outside, but still need the
controllers directory to be exists, that’s why we need a module path
config:

    <?php
        $config['modules_locations'] = array(
        APPPATH.'modules/' => '../modules/',
    );

Is it not ok ? .. that's fine so far. But, trust me, as a programmer, as
a member of development team, you want a better architecture than that.
And there are several way to make it done way more even better.

That's all for now.
